In this project, I attempted to solve the problem of raising a particular ski resort's revenues for the  coming season, called Big Mountain ski resort. The resort had just bought a new lift, bringing their total lifts to 12. The new lift cost 1,540,000. The goal was to raise revenues  by charging a higher ticket price that better reflects the facilities offered by Big Mountain Resort, while remaining relatively  competitive to attract enough visitors for the season.

Big Mountain Resort, like many others, charges two prices: Adult Weekend prices and Adult Weekday  prices. After cleaning the ski resort data, I determined that the most useful target feature to use for modelling is the Adult Weekend prices, because they contained the least amount of missing values, and thus  could provide the most information and most accurate modelling results and conclusions. So, the main target feature for this project is Adult Weekend prices. In order to raise these prices and remain competitive, there needs to be a revision of the valuation of t he facilities Big Mountain Resort offers compared to other ski resorts. That is, I needed to explore what features a ski resort offers that most supports a higher ticket price. I accomplish this by conducting exploratory data analysis on other features and looking at their relationship weith ticket price, namely the Adult Weekend ticket price.

During the explaratory analysis, I discovered several features that were driving resort ticket prices up. 
I concluded that there is no clear relationship between state and ticket prices; however, some states with higher ticket prices were explored.
It was found that features such as resorts_per_100ksq_mile and resorts_per_100kcapita, when large, drove up ticket prices. resorts_per_100kcapita also presented a large amount of variability in prices when the number was low; however the prices could go up quite high.
Several other features, such as FastQuads, Runs and total_chairs also positively correlate to prices. 
When taking a look at the ratio of chairs to runs for each resort, it was found that the total_chairs_skiable_ratio was actually negatively correlated with AdultWeekend prices. One reason this may be is because exclusivity (less chairs) drove ticket prices up, but results in less visitors. In my modelling, I focus on the total_chairs, vertical_drop, fastQuads, Runs, resorts_per_100kcapita and the ratios of chairs and fastQauds to Runs.

I created several models to determine what the optimal Adult Weekend price to charge is based on the facilities offered. For the first model (which was not really a model), I got an idea of performance by "guessing" that the price is simply the mean of ticket prices; this yielded a result of R-squared =0 for the training set, and R-squared = -0.000719221815450588 for the test set. This is because none of the variance in the prices is explained beyond the average ticket price, which I use as the "model". Using average price yielded a mean absolute error of around $19 for both the training and test set, indicating that true price would be off by about $19 if we used average price as our best guess.
I then built a linear regression model which scaled the features to a mean of 0 and variance of 1 using StandardScaler. Missing values were replaced with the median price. The linear regression model predictions accounted for 80% of variance in the training set, and around 70% for the test set, and yielded a mean absolute error of about $9 for the training set and about $12 for the test set. 
The linear regression model was cross-validated and yielded a mean and std of (0.6067485460522242, 0.08675739820156941), and confidence interval of [0.43, 0.78], 2 standard deviations from the mean. This model revelaed that vertical_drop was the biggest feature in determining price.
Finally, a random forest model was used, which used both the mean and median as the simpleimputer arguments to fill in missing values, and this revealed a mean and std of (0.671090856091562, 0.058144279765196795) of the cross-validation test scores. This model revealed that the top 4 features in determining price were Runs, fastQuads, SnowMaking_ac, and vertical_drop.
I have decided to proceed with the random forest regression model over the linear regression model, because the cross-validation results revealed a lower mean absolute error for the random forest model; the MAE for the linear regression model was around 12, and for the random forest model was around 10. The random forest model also showed less variation. This means the random forst model is more likely to provide the most accurate results because it is most consistent when cross-validated on its performance on the test set.

The initial ticket price Big Mountain resort was charging is $81. The random forest modelling I used suggests the price they should be charging is $92.72. The model does have an expected error of $10.34, suggesting that the price can be safely increased to $82.38. This is based on the facilities offered at Big Mountain compared to other ski resorts, which conclude that Big Mountain is on the upper end of other resorts, especially on features identified as most important by the model, such as the number of runs, acres of snow, total chairs, and vertical drop distance.
Given the scenarios that I ran above, it appears that there are two possible approaches: The first is to lower price by closing the least 5 used runs, which should only be done if the cost of closing them covers the loss of revenue caused by the price decrease. The second option is to support an increase in the price by adding a new chair lift, run and adding 150 to the vertical drop, which would raise revenue by $1879630; but again, the cost of these increases, and specifically the additional chair lift, must be lower than the expected increase in revenue for this to be a viable option. 